GraphRAG (Graph Retrieval-Augmented Generation)
GraphRAG is a powerful technique that combines the reasoning capabilities of large language models (LLMs) with the structure and precision of graph databases. It enhances traditional RAG (Retrieval-Augmented Generation) by retrieving information from a knowledge graph instead of plain documents. This is especially useful in domains like fraud detection, recommendation systems, and enterprise search, where entities and their relationships are complex and interconnected.

How it works: User prompts are embedded into vectors, used to search the graph, and then the retrieved subgraphs are passed to an LLM for natural language response generation.

Benefits: Improved context-awareness, explainability, and precision in answers.

ðŸ§  2. Knowledge Graph
A Knowledge Graph is a structured representation of real-world entities (like people, accounts, transactions) and their relationships. Unlike relational databases, it allows for flexible schema and intuitive querying using graph traversal.

Used in AI for: Relationship inference, semantic search, recommendation, entity resolution.

Example: In fraud detection, a knowledge graph can reveal hidden links between multiple fraudulent accounts using shared addresses or devices.

ðŸŽ›ï¸ 3. Streamlit
Streamlit is a Python-based open-source web app framework specifically built for machine learning and data science. It's commonly used to build lightweight, interactive dashboards and AI prototypes with minimal effort.

Why it's useful: Perfect for visualizing graph insights, querying data interactively, and integrating LLMs into user-facing apps.

Example: Build a fraud analysis app that allows analysts to ask questions in natural language and see graph-based results using TigerGraph/Neo4j + OpenAI APIs.

ðŸ” 4. LangChain
LangChain is a framework for developing applications powered by LLMs, especially those that require external data sources, multi-step reasoning, or tool use.

With graph DBs: LangChain can integrate with graph queries (via Cypher, GSQL, etc.), allowing the LLM to access up-to-date graph data during generation.

Use case: Enable an AI assistant to explain suspicious entity relationships or recommend next steps by calling graph database APIs through LangChain tools.

ðŸ•¸ï¸ 5. Neo4j
Neo4j is one of the most widely used graph databases, known for its intuitive Cypher query language and strong ecosystem. It supports storing and querying complex data relationships at scale.

AI integration: Can be used with LLMs via LangChain or custom GraphRAG pipelines.

Best suited for: Knowledge graphs, recommendation engines, fraud rings, supply chain analytics.

Cypher example:

c
Copy
Edit
MATCH (a:Person)-[:TRANSFERRED_TO]->(b:Account)
WHERE a.name = 'John Doe'
RETURN b


